[MUSIC]
So in this lecture we'll talk about basic
components that you see in embedded
systems commonly, different versions of
what you will eventually use in the class.
So development board is very common.
On the development board, see circled in
red is a microprocessor, microcontroller,
actually, in that case.
It looks like a freescale.
And this is a board from my office,
actually.
This freescale board has
a freescale processor on there and
you can program it from a host.
So you go to a host,
like that laptop that is pictured there.
You type in the code, you compile
the code, and you connect the host
to the development board and
transfer the data to the microcontroller.
You should do your programming on a host
not always, like with a raspberry pie,
as you'll see.
You can actually do the development on the
rest of your Pi itself, if you want to.
But it's most common if
you do it on a host,
because a host is generally
in a more powerful platform,
and easier to program all.
So as far as processes go and
microcontrollers as well,
but right now just talking about
general purpose processors.
You can classify them in two broad
categories, general purpose and
digital signal processing.
So general purpose processors,
those are what you see in your
standard desktop, laptop.
They're used for any application and
they include many features.
But they are overkill for most features.
They have many features that
you probably don't even need.
But they can handle anything, so
any particular task they can do it.
They can do it adequately.
But they tend to be more expensive
because they're overdesigned, right?
They're overengineered, and
they have many features that
maybe you don't need a lot of them,
but they have it just in case.
So that's a general purpose processor.
There are also digital
signal processors which
Specific to doing digital
signal processing applications.
So digital signal processing is
basically processing data streams.
So audio streams, video streams.
These are common, these are very common.
Maybe you wanna as audio is coming
in you wanna filter that audio or
you wanna compress that audio.
So same thing with video, same thing.
You might wanna filter it or
do some special effect or compress it or
something like that.
So these are big streams of
temporal data over time and
you wanna do some processing on it.
Digital signal processes are actually
good processes to do that with and
they're made for that with that in mind.
They have special instructions for that,
they have what are called
vector instructions.
So vector instructions are instructions
that do the same thing
to lots of different data.
So for instance, say you got add right?
With add, you might take two numbers and
add them together and get a result.
A vector add might take 32 numbers,
add them to another 32 numbers,
and get a 32 number result.
So we just did the same thing for
many pairs of data, many sets of data.
And this is very common
in signal processing.
So imagine you're processing video, right,
you got some image with a million pixels,
which isn't even a lot.
And you wanna perform some blur or
some operation to the pixels, whatever
operation you performed to one pixel,
you wanna do that to all one million,
the same thing.
So vector operations are very useful for
things like that.
You can just do things in
parallel very quickly.
So, sensors.
Sensors are extremely common,
you need some form of sensors.
And sensors just receive
information from the environment,
there are lots of
different kinds of sensors.
Let's generally say you can have
simple sensors that receive,
say, heat information, like thermistor.
That receives temperature information.
Photoresistor, it reports light intensity,
right?
So these are generally simple sensors.
I'll call them simple sensors
because their inputs and
outputs are just real numbers.
Zero volts to five volts, right?
So it's bright or not bright,
something like that.
But complex sensors can actually
receive information and
receive more complicated data.
So for instance take a camera.
CMOS camera, like in a digital camera.
So it captures images.
Now that's a light sensor,
it's technically a light sensor.
It's a special purpose light sensor.
It doesn't just tell you the intensity
of light like a photoresistor might.
It also tells you what color the light
is at every point in the image.
So it's much more complicated visual
data that this thing is reporting.
So it can't just give you one number,
zero to five yes, this is bright.
No, it's not.
It has to give you, say it's a megapixel,
a million pixels of image data,
to represent what it's capturing.
So this is a sensor, it's still
receiving data from the outside world.
But it's a much more complicated sensor,
so there's a lot more data to receive and
it's more complicated
to work with generally.
Now, we can still work with them, but
you generally have to know a little
bit more about the circuitry in
order to do that, or use library
functions, which we will talk about later.
Now, also an ethernet controller,
you can see that as a sensor.
You know, whether that's a sensor or
not is a question,
is a sort of a judgement call, but
an ethernet controller will allow you to
receive information on the ether,
from the ethernet, from the network.
So that information,
you can call that sensing,
not necessarily from the physical world,
but sensing from the network.
And the type of information they receive
over the network can be very complicated.
So that's a more complicated form of
a sensor, more complicated to use.
Actuators, they cause events to occur in
the environment, there's some simple ones.
LEDs, light emitting diodes,
they turn lights off and on.
LCDs, liquid crystal displays,
that's like what's on my digital watch,
you've seen these.
They're not back lit, so
they're not as bright.
They're low power, but they're useful.
Those, you can put numbers on them,
something like that, so
it's a relatively simple display.
You can also have more complicated
actuators, like a servo motor, so
they're motors, DC motors, servo motors
are a little bit more complicated.
You can control the angle, the precise
angle to which the motor turns,
which is useful in a lot of cases, like
say a robot arm or something like that.
Ethernet controller,
it can also be thought of as an actuator,
because it can output
data to the environment.
If I consider the network itself to be the
environment then an Ethernet controller
allows you to output some
message data to the network and
send it out to wherever
you're going to send it to.
But these are more complicated sensors,
or actuators, I'm sorry.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]